.\"                                      Hey, EMACS: -*- nroff -*-
.\" First parameter, NAME, should be all caps
.\" Second parameter, SECTION, should be 1-8, maybe w/ subsection
.\" other parameters are allowed: see man(7), man(1)
.TH OPENTTD 6 "September 16, 2004"
.\" Please adjust this date whenever revising the manpage.
.\"
.\" Some roff macros, for reference:
.\" .nh        disable hyphenation
.\" .hy        enable hyphenation
.\" .ad l      left justify
.\" .ad b      justify to both left and right margins
.\" .nf        disable filling
.\" .fi        enable filling
.\" .br        insert line break
.\" .sp <n>    insert n+1 empty lines
.\" for manpage-specific macros, see man(7)
.SH NAME
openttd \-  An open source clone of the Microprose game "Transport Tycoon Deluxe"
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openttd
.RI [ options ]
.br
.SH DESCRIPTION
Unfortunately, there is no real manpage for openttd yet. Hopefully someone
will write one soon. For now you should use
.B openttd -h
for more information, or check our Wiki manual: http://wiki.openttd.org/
.PP
.\" TeX users may be more comfortable with the \fB<whatever>\fP and
.\" \fI<whatever>\fP escape sequences to invoke bold face and italics, 
.\" respectively.
.\" \fBopenttd\fP is a program that...
.SH OPTIONS
Wouldn't we like to have something here?
.\" below are commented out, to serve as layout examples for when somebody
.\" does actually fill this page
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-h, \-\-help
.\" Show summary of options.
.\" .TP
.\" .B \-v, \-\-version
.\" Show version of program.
.\" .SH SEE ALSO
.\" .BR bar (1),
.\" .BR baz (1).
.br
.SH AUTHOR
This manual page was written by Matthijs Kooijman <matthijs@katherina.student.utwente.nl>,
for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
